samples: tfm_cert: Add reference TF-M sample for PSA Certified Level 2 (#9204)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/tfm/tfm_cert/README.rst

   :depth: 2

This sample is a reference for how to achieve PSA Certified Level 2 using TF-M on nRF devices.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample uses the Trusted Firmware M, nRF Secure Immutable bootloader and MCUboot to satisfy the Platform Security Architecture (PSA) Certified Level 2 requirements.
The sample prints information about the identity of the device and information about the firmware versions that are currently running.

Building and running
********************

The sample requires that the device is properly provisioned when running.
Build and flash the provisioning_image sample in order to provision the device with the PSA root of trust security parameters.

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp samples/tfm/provisioning_image -d build_provisioning_image
    west flash --erase -d build_provisioning_image

Build and flash the TF-M PSA Certified Level 2 sample, do not flash with ``--erase`` or the PSA platform security parameters will be lost.

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns samples/tfm/tfm_cert

>     west flash

Reviewer: Ah got dam that comment should be in the line of building the provisioning sample

Firmware Upgrade
****************

The sample supports firmware upgrade of both the application and TF-M, and the second stage bootloader.
The firmware update process requires signature verification keys in order to sign the images used in the firmware update process.
The sample is supplied with its own set of private keys for signing.

> These keys can be replaced with custom keys.

Author: Removed, and also mentioned that MCUBoot and NSIB use signing keys by default that should not be used for production.

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns zephyr/tfm/tfm_cert -- \
    -DCONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE="/home/user/ncs/_keys/nsib_priv.pem"
    -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE=\"/home/user/ncs/_keys/mcuboot_priv.pem\" \

See :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys` for information on how to generate custom keys for a project.

The bootloader and application can be updated using the The :file:`mcumgr` command-line tool.
See :ref:`smp_svr_sample` for installation instructions and usage instructions.

> Application and TF-M Firmware upgrade
> *************************************

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Application and TF-M firmware update
************************************
```

> The application and TF-M firmware can be updated using firmware upgrade.
> For the image to be updatable the firmware image version :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION` has to be updated to a higher version.
> See :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions_mcuboot_downgrade` for information on downgrade protection in MCUBoot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use firmware update to update the application and TF-M firmware.
For the image to be updatable, the firmware image version :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION` has to be updated to a higher version.
See :ref:`ug_fw_update_image_versions_mcuboot_downgrade` for information on downgrade protection in MCUboot.
```

> To upload a new application image we need to build an application with an updated image version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upload a new application image, build an application with an updated image version.
```

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns samples/tfm/tfm_cert -d build_update \
    -DCONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION=\"1.2.3\"

Then upload the new application image to the device.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image upload build_update/zephyr/app_update.bin

> Once the new application image is uploaded the hash of the image will be shown in the image listing.
> Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the new application image is uploaded, the hash of the image is shown in the image list.
Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.
```

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image test <hash>

> We can then trigger the application upgrade by initiating a reset, the verification of the image will happen during the upgrade process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trigger the application update by initiating a reset.
The verification of the image will happen during the update process.
```

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 reset

> Bootloader Firmware upgrade
> ***************************

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bootloader firmware update
**************************
```

> To upload a new bootloader image we need to build a bootloader targeting the correct bootloader slot with an updated firmware image version.
> By default the bootloader is placed in slot 0, so build enable building of the slot 1 bootloader.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To upload a new bootloader image, build a bootloader targeting the correct bootloader slot with an updated firmware image version.
The bootloader is placed in slot 0 by default, so enable building of the slot 1 bootloader.
```

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns samples/tfm/tfm_cert \
    -DCONFIG_BUILD_S1_VARIANT=y \
    -DFW_INFO_FIRMWARE_VERSION=2

> List the current firmware images and upload a bootloader image that targets thet non-active bootloader slot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List the current firmware images and upload a bootloader image that targets the non-active bootloader slot.
```

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image upload build/zephyr/signed_by_mcuboot_and_b0_s1_image_update.bin

> Once the new bootloader image is uploaded the hash of the image will be shown in the image listing.
> Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the new bootloader image is uploaded, the hash of the image is shown in the image list.
Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.
```

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image test <hash>

> We can then trigger the bootloader upgrade by initiating a reset, the verification of the image will happen during the upgrade process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trigger the bootloader update by initiating a reset.
The verification of the image will happen during the update process.
```

.. _tfm_cert:

TF-M: PSA Certified Level 2
###########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample is a reference for how to achieve PSA Certified Level 2 using TF-M on nRF devices.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample uses Trusted Firmware-M, nRF Secure Immutable bootloader and MCUboot to satisfy the Platform Security Architecture (PSA) Certified Level 2 requirements.
The sample prints information about the identity of the device and the firmware versions that are currently running.

Building and running
********************

> The sample requires that the device is provisioned using the :ref:`provisioning image <provisioning_image>` sample.

Reviewer 2: When are we counting on having merged [provisioning image sample ](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/9033)? Doc build for this PR will keep failing due to the link until the provisioning image sample is merged into main.

Author: Fingers crossed, very soon.

The nRF Secure Immutable bootloader and MCUboot will use signing keys that should not be used in production.

Example on how to generate and use keys:

Generate security keys if needed:
.. code-block:: console

    python3 bootloader/mcuboot/scripts/imgtool.py keygen -t ecdsa-p256 -k /home/user/ncs/_keys/mcuboot_priv.pem
    python3 nrf/scripts/bootloader/keygen.py --private -o /home/user/ncs/_keys/nsib_priv.pem

Update the ``child_image/mcuboot/prj.conf`` file to set the private signing key for MCUBoot:
.. code-block:: console

    CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE="/home/user/ncs/_keys/mcuboot_priv.pem"
    CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_RSA=n
    CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ECDSA_P256=y

Update the ``prj.conf`` file to set the private signing key for NSIB:
.. code-block:: console

    CONFIG_SB_SIGNING_KEY_FILE="/home/user/ncs/_keys/nsib_priv.pem"

See :ref:`ug_fw_update_keys` for more information on how to generate and use keys for a project.

The bootloader and the application can be updated using the :file:`mcumgr` command-line tool.
See :ref:`smp_svr_sample` for installation and usage instructions.

Application and TF-M firmware update

> ************************************

Reviewer 2: This should probably be a subsection, right?
```suggestion
====================================
```

To upload a new application image, build an application with an updated image version.

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns nrf/samples/tfm/tfm_cert -d build_update \
    -DCONFIG_MCUBOOT_IMAGE_VERSION=\"1.2.3\"

Then upload the new application image to the device.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image upload build_update/zephyr/app_update.bin

Once the new application image is uploaded, the hash of the image is shown in the image list.
Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image test <hash>

Trigger the application update by initiating a reset.
The verification of the image will happen during the update process.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 reset

Bootloader firmware update

> **************************

Reviewer 2: Subsection?
```suggestion
==========================
```

.. _tfm_cert:

TF-M: PSA Certified Level 2
###########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample is a reference for how to achieve PSA Certified Level 2 using TF-M on nRF devices.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we need .. include:: /includes/tfm.txt here?

    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns nrf/samples/tfm/tfm_cert \
    -DCONFIG_BUILD_S1_VARIANT=y \
    -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_FW_INFO_FIRMWARE_VERSION=2

List the current firmware images and upload a bootloader image that targets the non-active bootloader slot.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image upload build/zephyr/signed_by_mcuboot_and_b0_s1_image_update.bin

Once the new bootloader image is uploaded, the hash of the image is shown in the image list.
Flag the image to be tested on next reboot using its hash.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image list
    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 image test <hash>

Trigger the bootloader update by initiating a reset.
The verification of the image will happen during the update process.

.. code-block:: console

    mcumgr --conntype serial --connstring dev=/dev/ttyACM2,baud=115200,mtu=512 reset

Testing

> =======

Reviewer 2: This section is usually a subsection of Building and running. Maybe it should be moved to before the Firmware update section.
